ActionMenu docs (#2227)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@react-spectrum/menu/docs/ActionMenu.mdx

<!-- Copyright 2021 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-spectrum/menu';
import {HeaderInfo, PropTable} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-spectrum/menu/package.json';

```jsx import
import {ActionMenu, Item, Section} from '@react-spectrum/menu';
import Copy from '@spectrum-icons/workflow/Copy';
import Cut from '@spectrum-icons/workflow/Cut';
import {Flex} from '@react-spectrum/layout';
import Paste from '@spectrum-icons/workflow/Paste';
```

---
category: Collections
keywords: [action menu, dropdown]

> after_version: 3.5.0

Author: Do we need a version to deploy after or we want this out immediately?/

Reviewer: I think it's fine now, it's out

---

# ActionMenu

<p>{docs.exports.ActionMenu.description}</p>

<HeaderInfo
  packageData={packageData}
  componentNames={['ActionMenu']}
  sourceData={[

>     {type: 'Spectrum', url: 'https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/popover/'}

Author: Menu points to popover, I assumed that is applicable.

  ]} />

## Example

```tsx example
<ActionMenu>
  <Item>Cut</Item>
  <Item>Copy</Item>
  <Item>Paste</Item>
</ActionMenu>
```

## Content

ActionMenu follows the [Collection Components](../react-stately/collections.html) API,
accepting both static and dynamic collections. See [Menu](Menu.html#content) for further explanation.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let actionMenuItems = [
    {name: 'Cut'},
    {name: 'Copy'},
    {name: 'Paste'},
    {name: 'Replace'}
  ];

  return (
    <ActionMenu items={actionMenuItems}>
      {item => <Item key={item.name}>{item.name}</Item>}
    </ActionMenu>
  );
}
```

### Trays
On mobile, ActionMenus automatically display in a tray instead of a popover to improve usability.

### Internationalization

> In order to internationalize an AcitonMenu, the content provided to all child items should be localized.

Reviewer 2: typo `AcitonMenu` => `ActionMenu`

For languages that are read right-to-left (e.g. Hebrew and Arabic), the layout of the ActionMenu is flipped.

## Events

> ActionMenu supports the `onAction` callback which receives the selected item. See [Selection](#selection) for more information.

Reviewer 3: No Selection section on this page, should this link to Menu's docs?

Author: ActionMenu doesn't support selection, `onSelectionChange()` or `selectedKeys` so it seemed like this section should be unique and not point to Menu.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
ActionMenu supports the `onAction` prop, which is called when the user presses a menu item. It receives the key of the item as an argument, which can be used to perform the relevant action.
```

### Static Items

```tsx example
<ActionMenu>
  <Section title="Styles">
    <Item key="bold">Bold</Item>
    <Item key="underline">Underline</Item>
  </Section>
  <Section title="Align">
    <Item key="left">Left</Item>
    <Item key="middle">Middle</Item>
    <Item key="right">Right</Item>
  </Section>
</ActionMenu>
```

### Dynamic Items

Sections used with dynamic items are populated from a hierarchical data structure. Similarly to the props on ActionMenu, `<Section>` takes an array of data using the `items` prop.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let openWindows = [
    {
      name: 'Left Panel',
      id: 'left',
      children: [
        {id: 1, name: 'Final Copy (1)'}
      ]
    },
    {
      name: 'Right Panel',
      id: 'right',
      children: [
        {id: 2, name: 'index.ts'},
        {id: 3, name: 'package.json'},
        {id: 4, name: 'license.txt'}
      ]
    }
  ];

  return (
    <ActionMenu
      items={openWindows}>
      {item => (
        <Section items={item.children} title={item.name}>
          {item => <Item>{item.name}</Item>}
        </Section>
      )}
    </ActionMenu>
  );
}

> ```

Reviewer 4: Can we make the items in the above examples actions as this component would be used rather than items you would select? Cut/copy/paste as used in the other examples are good.

### Accessibility

Sections without a `title` must provide an `aria-label` for accessibility.

## Complex Menu Items

Items within ActionMenu also allow for additional content used to better communicate options. Icons and descriptions can be added to the `children` of `Item` as shown in the example below. If a description is added, the prop `slot="description"` must be used to distinguish the different `<Text>` elements.

```tsx example
import {Keyboard, Text} from '@react-spectrum/text';
<ActionMenu>
  <Item key="cut" textValue="cut">
    <Cut size="S"/>
    <Text>Cut</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘X</Keyboard>
  </Item>
  <Item key="copy" textValue="copy">
    <Copy size="S"/>
    <Text>Copy</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘C</Keyboard>
  </Item>
  <Item key="paste" textValue="paste">
    <Paste size="S"/>
    <Text>Paste</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘V</Keyboard>
  </Item>
</ActionMenu>
```

## Props

<PropTable component={docs.exports.ActionMenu} links={docs.links} />

## Visual options

### Autofocus

Applying `autoFocus` to the ActionMenu sets focus to the ActionMenu trigger.

> ### Disabled items

Author: It's called "Disabled" in Menu. but that is because the menu only has items that can be disabled. Since this is an ActionMenu, we can disable items or the trigger so I was more specific.

Reviewer 5: Should we add a `isDisabled` example as well then?

Author: Sure!

I also decided to add an Open example and found that we don't support `defaultOpen` or `onOpenChange`. Opening #2728 to fix that.

  ];

  return (
    <ActionMenu
      items={openWindows}>
      {item => (
        <Section items={item.children} title={item.name}>
          {item => <Item>{item.name}</Item>}
        </Section>
      )}
    </ActionMenu>
  );
}
```

### Accessibility

Sections without a `title` must provide an `aria-label` for accessibility.

## Complex Menu Items

Items within ActionMenu also allow for additional content used to better communicate options. Icons and descriptions can be added to the `children` of `Item` as shown in the example below. If a description is added, the prop `slot="description"` must be used to distinguish the different `<Text>` elements.

```tsx example
import {Keyboard, Text} from '@react-spectrum/text';
<ActionMenu>
  <Item key="cut" textValue="cut">
    <Cut size="S"/>
    <Text>Cut</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘X</Keyboard>
  </Item>
  <Item key="copy" textValue="copy">
    <Copy size="S"/>
    <Text>Copy</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘C</Keyboard>
  </Item>
  <Item key="paste" textValue="paste">
    <Paste size="S"/>
    <Text>Paste</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘V</Keyboard>
  </Item>
</ActionMenu>
```

## Props

<PropTable component={docs.exports.ActionMenu} links={docs.links} />

> ## Visual options

Reviewer 5: Mind adding a section for `isQuiet` here?

Reviewer 5: Im also surprised that `isOpen` doesn't show up on the prop list but perhaps out of scope for this PR.

In order to internationalize an ActionMenu, the content provided to all child items should be localized.
For languages that are read right-to-left (e.g. Hebrew and Arabic), the layout of the ActionMenu is flipped.

## Events
ActionMenu supports the `onAction` prop, which is called when the user presses a menu item. It receives the key of the item as an argument, which can be used to perform the relevant action.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [action, setAction] = React.useState('');

  return (
    <>
      <ActionMenu onAction={setAction}>
        <Item key="cut">Cut</Item>
        <Item key="copy">Copy</Item>
        <Item key="paste">Paste</Item>
      </ActionMenu>
      <p>Action: {action}</p>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Sections
ActionMenu supports sections in order to group options. Sections can be used by wrapping groups of Items in a `Section` component. Each `Section` takes a `title` and `key` prop.

### Static Items

```tsx example
<ActionMenu>
  <Section title="File">
    <Item key="bold">New</Item>
    <Item key="underline">Open...</Item>
  </Section>
  <Section title="Save">
    <Item key="left">Save</Item>
    <Item key="middle">Save As...</Item>

>     <Item key="right">Save All</Item>

Reviewer 4: These keys are probably wrong?

  </Section>
</ActionMenu>
```

### Dynamic Items

Sections used with dynamic items are populated from a hierarchical data structure. Similarly to the props on ActionMenu, `<Section>` takes an array of data using the `items` prop.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let openWindows = [
    {
      name: 'Reversion',
      id: 'revert',
      children: [
        {id: 'undo', name: 'Undo'},
        {id: 'redo', name: 'Redo'}
      ]
    },
    {
      name: 'Clipboard',

>       id: 'buffer',

Reviewer 5: ultra nit: should this be "clipboard" instead of "buffer"? Doesn't really matter too much since it is the section id so feel free to ignore

  );
}
```

### Accessibility

Sections without a `title` must provide an `aria-label` for accessibility.

## Complex Menu Items

Items within ActionMenu also allow for additional content used to better communicate options. Icons and descriptions can be added to the `children` of `Item` as shown in the example below. If a description is added, the prop `slot="description"` must be used to distinguish the different `<Text>` elements.

```tsx example
import {Keyboard, Text} from '@react-spectrum/text';
<ActionMenu>
  <Item key="cut" textValue="cut">
    <Cut size="S"/>
    <Text>Cut</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘X</Keyboard>
  </Item>
  <Item key="copy" textValue="copy">
    <Copy size="S"/>
    <Text>Copy</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘C</Keyboard>
  </Item>
  <Item key="paste" textValue="paste">
    <Paste size="S"/>
    <Text>Paste</Text>
    <Keyboard>⌘V</Keyboard>
  </Item>
</ActionMenu>
```

## Props

<PropTable component={docs.exports.ActionMenu} links={docs.links} />

## Visual options

### Quiet

[View guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/action-button/#Quiet)

```tsx example
<ActionMenu
  isQuiet
  items={[
    {name: 'Cut', id: 'p8k3i4'},
    {name: 'Copy', id: 'j7i3a0'},

>     {name: 'Paste', id: 't4u8v6'}

Reviewer 4: Why are the ids so random? 😂

Author: They came from a menu example, I originally left them so we have some examples where keys and names don't match, but now they all match.
